[WIP] Add initial decision making process to community handbook (#3940)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/community-handbook/governance/gov-roles.md

The Steering Committee has oversight of the long term strategy for the *Turing Way* community.
The Chair is responsible for sharing learnings and requests from the Working / Delivery Group to the Steering Committee, and for bringing back requests and guidance from the Steering Committee to WG / DG members.

### Sharing responsibilities

It is up to the Working / Delivery Group to determine if they would like to have one Chair or up to three Co-Chairs sharing the responsibilities listed above.

In *The Turing Way* we have found that having co-chairs works very well in distributing the workload.
For example, it can remove some of the meeting time requirements and provide more flexibility for meetings if members are connecting from multiple time zones.

We also acknowledge that there is additional work in sharing the responsibilities.
Two co-chairs do more work than one chair because they have to communicate and align with each other!

We encourage candidates to choose the best option for their personal work circumstances, and their preferred collaboration styles.

### Selection and duration in role

> It is up to the working group to determine a process for selecting a Chair or Co-Chair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is up to the Working Group to determine a process for selecting a Chair or Co-Chair.
```

> It is up to the working group to set a specific time limit on how long an individual can hold the role of Chair or Co-Chair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is up to the Working Group to set a specific time limit on how long an individual can hold the role of Chair or Co-Chair.
The time limit should also take into account that, in order to run for Chair of the Steering Committee, a member has to be an existing Working Group or Delivery Group chair. 
```

> Please capture these decisions in the working group's charter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please capture these decisions in the Working Group's charter.
```

> ## Secretary

Reviewer: I know this is an old established role, but I do wonder whether we could consider alternative names? Secretary is heavily gendered (even if we don't want it to be) and I was thinking that something more neutral like "documentarian" (like the Book Dash working group has) captures the essence of the role clearly enough?

Reviewer 2: I've used "Note taker" or "Records keeper" depending on the scope of the position in some of my groups. I've also noticed that this role is flexible and some groups define it differently then others.

> This text is adapted from the "What is the role of the Secretary" documentation in the [DIY Committee Guide](https://www.diycommitteeguide.org/) by [Volunteer Now](https://www.volunteernow.co.uk/) and is re-used under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Share Alike 2.0. `reformat to reference: https://www.diycommitteeguide.org/what-is-the-role-of-the-secretary/`

> The Secretary supports the WG / DG in ensuring there is transparent documentation of the decisions made by the group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Secretary supports the Working / Delivery Group in ensuring there is transparent documentation of the decisions made by the group.
```

> They are also accountable for tracking communications to broader *Turing Way* community from the WG, although they do not have to take on these responsibilities individually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are also accountable for tracking communications to broader *Turing Way* community from the Working / Delivery Group, although they do not have to take on these responsibilities individually.
```

### Responsibilities

There are three dimensions of the Secretary's responsibilities:

#### 1. Ensuring meetings are effectively organised and minuted

The Secretary works closely with the Chair to plan meetings.

> They should give WG members sufficient time to add topics to the meeting agenda and circulate the agenda in advance of the meeting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They should give Working / Delivery Group members sufficient time to add topics to the meeting agenda and circulate the agenda in advance of the meeting.
```

> We don't require working groups / delivery groups to take formal minutes of the meetings but we do ask that they capture and archive notes for two purposes: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We don't require Working / Delivery Groups to take formal minutes of the meetings but we do ask that they capture and archive notes for two purposes: 
```

> - 1: to ensure members of the broader *Turing Way* community are able to participate in the activities of the WG / DG, including members of the WG / DG who are not able to attend synchronous meetings, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 1: to ensure members of the broader *Turing Way* community are able to participate in the activities of the WG / DG, including members of the Working / Delivery Group who are not able to attend synchronous meetings, and 
```

- 2: to meet our guiding principle of transparent decision making. `format as reference`

> The Secretary keeps track of actions that have been identified and report to the WG / DG how they are progressing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Secretary keeps track of actions that have been identified and report to the Working / Delivery Group how they are progressing.
```

> The reporting is valuable to the Chair in their representation of the WG / DG at the constitutional decision making level through their membership of the Steering Council.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reporting is valuable to the Chair in their representation of the Working / Delivery Group at the constitutional decision making level through their membership of the Steering Council.
```

> The documentation also supports the WG / DG in keeping focused on their shared vision and goals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documentation also supports the Working / Delivery Group in keeping focused on their shared vision and goals.
```

> #### 2. Document membership of the WG and track acknowledgement of their work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 2. Document membership of the Working / Delivery Group and track acknowledgement of their work
```

In *The Turing Way* we put acknowledgement of individuals' efforts and labour at the centre of our mission.

> The Secretary is asked to ensure that there is an up to date record of membership of the WG / DG, including alumni members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Secretary is asked to ensure that there is an up to date record of membership of the Working / Delivery Group, including alumni members.
```

They are also asked to mentor members to regularly capture their efforts in the Contributors Record `reformat to reference: https://book.the-turing-way.org/afterword/contributors-record` of the book.

#### 3. Track communication and correspondence

> As a combination of the two responsibilities above we ask that the Secretary keeps track of outputs and communications from the WG / DG.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a combination of the two responsibilities above we ask that the Secretary keeps track of outputs and communications from the Working / Delivery Group.
```

> Their role is to ensure that the activities are not happening in a silo - meeting our guiding principle of reciprocity `format to reference` - and that the WG / DG members are appropriately celebrated for their efforts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Their role is to ensure that the activities are not happening in a silo - meeting our guiding principle of reciprocity `format to reference` - and that the Working / Delivery Group members are appropriately celebrated for their efforts.
```

I will note that our guiding principles document does not specifically reference reciprocity at the moment so we need to update

> The Secretary may delegate this responsibilty to another Working Group member (a communications lead, for example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Secretary may delegate this responsibility to another Working / Delivery Group member (a communications lead, for example).
```

> This delegation should be documented in the Working Group's charter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This delegation should be documented in the Working / Delivery Group's charter.
```

### Sharing responsibilities

> It is up to the Working Group to determine if they would like to have one Secretary or up to three Co-Secretaries sharing the responsibilities listed above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is up to the Working / Delivery Group to determine if they would like to have one Secretary or up to three Co-Secretaries sharing the responsibilities listed above.
```
